Cursor partnership docs (#3256)
chainguard-dev/edu: content/chainguard/integrations/cursor.md

---
title : "Using Chainguard with Cursor"
linktitle: "Cursor"
lead: "Using Chainguard container images and libraries in AI-generated code with Cursor"
description: "Using Chainguard container images and libraries in AI-generated code with Cursor"
type: "article"
date: 2026-04-20T14:00:00-04:00
lastmod: 2026-04-20T14:00:00-04:00
draft: false
weight: 010
---

AI coding agents write and install dependencies faster than any security team can review them manually. Every pip install, npm install, or docker pull an agent kicks off is a trust decision being made on your behalf against public registries. 

> The [Chainguard and Cursor partnership](https://www.chainguard.dev/partners/cursor) is a clean division of labor: Cursor is where your developers and agents plan, write, and review code. Chainguard is where developers reach for open source artifacts: Python, Java, and JavaScript libraries plus 2,300+ container images, all rebuilt from verifiable sources in the Chainguard Factory. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Chainguard and Cursor partnership](https://www.chainguard.dev/partners/cursor) follows a clear separation of responsibilities. Cursor is where your developers and agents plan, write, and review code. Chainguard is where developers reach for open source artifacts: Python, Java, and JavaScript libraries plus 2,300+ container images, all rebuilt from verifiable sources in the Chainguard Factory. 
```

Reviewer 2: Looks like a missing word here:

...coding agents write **code** and install dependencies...

This page explains how to start using Chainguard artifacts in Cursor.

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, you'll need:
* A [Cursor](https://cursor.com/) account
* A [Chainguard account](https://console.enforce.dev/) and organization 

> * [chainctl installed and authenticated](/chainguard/administration/how-to-install-chainctl/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [`chainctl` installed and authenticated](/chainguard/administration/how-to-install-chainctl/)
```

    * Chainguard authentication should be configured in the environment where Cursor runs commands.

## Migrate a project to use Chainguard

The fastest way to get started is to tell Cursor what you want and let it handle the migration. Open a project in Cursor, then in the chat, use a prompt like:

> ```

Reviewer: ```1suggestion
```Prompt
````

maybe?

Reviewer 2: I think an example prompt would be good;  something like:

Migrate this project to use Chainguard container images and Chainguard libraries.

You might want to add the caveat after that sometimes more information/interaction is needed to complete the configuration.

I'd like to migrate this project to use Chainguard images and libraries. My Chainguard org is <your-org>.
```
Cursor will update your Dockerfiles to reference Chainguard container images and reconfigure your build files to pull dependencies from Chainguard Libraries.

### Using Chainguard container images

> Chainguard provides thousands of minimal, CVE-free container images at cgr.dev. When Cursor updates a Dockerfile, it will reference images like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Chainguard provides thousands of minimal, CVE-free container images. When Cursor updates a Dockerfile to use Chainguard container images, it will reference the images like the following example:
```

To say they're available "at cgr.dev" sounds a little off to me

```dockerfile
FROM cgr.dev/chainguard/python:latest-dev AS builder
FROM cgr.dev/chainguard/python:latest
```

> You can browse available images and their tags in the [Chainguard Images directory](https://images.chainguard.dev/). Learn more about Chainguard image variants in [Chainguard’s container variants docs](/chainguard/chainguard-images/about/differences-development-production/).

Reviewer: The link to the variants explainer made more sense in the original draft, here it sort of sticks out a little bit. Maybe add a blurb that explains this example a bit and point to the variants doc, like this:

```
This Dockerfile references both the `python` image's `latest` and `latest-dev` variants. Learn more about Chainguard's image variants....
```

### Using Chainguard libraries

Chainguard Libraries provide malware-resistant Python, Java, and JavaScript packages. When Cursor migrates a project, it reconfigures your build files to pull dependencies from Chainguard instead of public registries. 

You can browse available packages in the [Chainguard Console](https://console.chainguard.dev/), under the **Libraries** section. 

## Troubleshooting

### Authentication errors on install

If you see a 401 or 403 when running `npm install`, `pip install`, or a Maven build after Cursor configures your project:
* Confirm the pull token was created for the correct ecosystem (`java`, `python`, or `javascript`).
* Check that the token hasn't expired. The default TTL is 720 hours (30 days).
* For npm: verify your `.npmrc` has both the registry line and the auth line for the correct host.

### Image not found / tag doesn't exist

> If Cursor references an image tag that doesn't exist:

Reviewer: After thinking about this more, I wonder if we should specify that the user should ensure they have access to the tag in the Console. Not all customers will have access to all the tags shown the Directory. Maybe I'm overthinking it
